---
layout: post
title: Box Hill
date: 2024-11-02 12:00:00
description:
tags:
categories: hikes
tabs: true
images:
  compare: true
  slider: true
---

<swiper-container keyboard="true" navigation="true" pagination="true" pagination-clickable="true" pagination-dynamic-bullets="true" rewind="true">
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/hiking/box_hill/1.JPG" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/hiking/box_hill/2.JPG" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/hiking/box_hill/3.JPG" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/hiking/box_hill/4.JPG" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/hiking/box_hill/5.JPG" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/hiking/box_hill/6.JPG" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
</swiper-container>

The Box Hill circular path was the perfect final preparatory hike for Kilimanjaro.
While the hike didn’t boast the sweeping coastal views of other trails, it more than made up for it with challenging ascents and descents that tested our limits as we navigated the valleys.

To reach the path, we took a train from London Waterloo station.
The journey to Box Hill and Westhumble, the closest station to the start of the hike, took just over an hour.
At the station, we noticed a handful of fellow hikers, all seemingly heading in the same direction.

Unexpectedly, the station was still a 30-minute walk—or more accurately, a mini-hike—to the start of the circular path.
This approach involved initially walking alongside the main road, then transitioning onto a steep uphill trail that led us to a bustling car park, the official starting point.
Here, we spotted national park workers clad in bright orange jackets, ready to offer assistance if needed.

The beginning of the Box Hill circular walk was well signposted, a consistency that was maintained throughout the route.
The trail spanned approximately 12 kilometres, but the constant changes in elevation made it feel much longer.
Each incline seemed to come with its own test of endurance, especially as the path alternated between open fields and shaded orchards.

Despite its reputation as a rigorous walk, the hike lacked the dramatic scenery of other notable trails.
Instead of sweeping cliffsides or panoramic views, we found ourselves surrounded by woodland paths, flanked by dense greenery that enclosed us on either side.
The tranquillity of these sections, however, offered its own type of reward — a momentary escape from the usual hustle of city life.

After a series of steep climbs and descents, we looped back towards the starting point, feeling the satisfying fatigue that only comes from a hike well-trodden.
While it may not have delivered jaw-dropping sights, the Box Hill circular path provided exactly what we sought: a formidable training ground that pushed our limits and readied us for greater challenges ahead.
