---
layout: post
title: Pen Y Fan
date: 2024-08-17 09:00:00
description:
tags:
categories: hikes
tabs: true
---

<swiper-container keyboard="true" navigation="true" pagination="true" pagination-clickable="true" pagination-dynamic-bullets="true" rewind="true">
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/hiking/pen_y_fan/1.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/hiking/pen_y_fan/2.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/hiking/pen_y_fan/3.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/hiking/pen_y_fan/4.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/hiking/pen_y_fan/5.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
</swiper-container>

It was a bright and sunny start to the morning. I set off around 9 AM, making my way from Oxford to South Wales, picking up some friends along the way.
The weather forecast was uncertain for later in the day, as is typical with British weather.
The drive was straightforward, mostly sticking to motorways until we finally arrived in the Brecon Beacons.

After parking, we began the hike to the peak of the mountains.
As this was the first of my preparatory hikes, I felt less prepared and wasn’t quite sure what to expect.
Looking around, some hikers had trekking poles, while others were just wearing trainers.
Just as we began our ascent, the weather took a turn for the worse, and we were quickly engulfed in a cloud.
Still, we pressed on, hoping the weather would clear so we could enjoy some views from the top.

The incline was fairly steep, though not dangerously so.
With the dense fog, it was impossible to see much ahead, making it unclear how long the upward climb would last.
I started to feel the strain, realising I wasn’t in as good shape as I had initially thought.
But with good company and a positive attitude, we continued onward until we reached the first peak (Corn Du) after about an hour, just as the weather cleared.
This gave us some stunning panoramic views.

As we continued towards the peak of Pen Y Fan, the weather worsened again.
We braved the conditions to finally reach southern Britain’s highest mountain at 886 metres.
Initially, we had planned to take the circular route, but with limited visibility and the deteriorating weather, we decided against taking any risky detours.
Instead, we opted to return the way we came, for a steady but familiar descent.

All in all, it was a short but moderately challenging hike.
I appreciated the uphill climb in an area not too far from home.
The views from Corn Du were well worth the effort.
However, the hike took less time than expected and didn’t require any real hiking experience or specialised equipment.
